I'll speak to Eli Clifton who's a senior
adviser at The quiny Institute for
responsible statecraft joining us from
New York welcome to Al jazer how
effective do you think the sanctions
will be in deterring violence in the
occupied West
Bank thanks for having me well I mean
there's no evidence that these sanctions
to date have deterred settler violence
at all um so but they do serve a couple
of important roles they do offer a fig
leaf for both the idf's complicitness in
enabling and protecting settlers to act
with impunity and you know perhaps more
importantly for the Biden Administration
here it attempts to preempt questions
for them about US military aid to Israel
and the decision not to designate
specific IDF units as participating in
human rights abuses now that's a
designation that could lead to the use
of US law the Ley law to withhold
weapons transfers to those units so
those pressures they're particularly
acute right now in the final months of
the US Presidential saying is the US
just doing this sort of as a distraction
then
well I think it partly is a distraction
and partially to manage a difficult
situation when you have
44% of likely Democratic voters opposing
US military aid to Israel at least in
terms of its war against Hamas with only
25% in favor so they have to do
something but they don't want to do
something that actually could could have
long-term effects on the US Israel
relationship why now though because
there's years of accumulated evidence
that this particular organization has
been funded and supported by the Israeli
government as well as senior members uh
senior members of the NGO are affiliated
with the parties of the ultra
nationalist ministers like benir and
smrc who as you know have called for
violence against Palestinians so so so
why
now well I think that you know we're
facing unusual pressure right now for
the administration to do something
because not just in the presidential
election cycle but there's also you know
a growing concern that the war in Gaza
uh and now the the expansion of the
military actions by IDF into the OR
broadening their activities in the West
Bank could actually pose uh you know to
be a spark to light a regional war and
so there certainly is a strong desire in
Washington pre to prevent that but
there's also competing pressures not to
do something that would fundamentally
change the US Israel relationship now
all of this is coming at the expense of
US policy in the region that could
actually help deescalate tensions with
Iran and Hezbollah and could help bring
a ceasefire in Gaza and a release of
hostages and those are policies that
wouldn't only benefit people in the
region but it would also serve US
National Security interests of avoiding
getting drawn into another endless war
in the Middle East so unfortunately uh
the the policies and the sanctions that
were just announced um it's it's to
present the appearance of doing
something to express disapproval with
what's happening but not to actually
take the types of actions that
Democratic voters would want uh and are
pushing the president to undertake but
also the types of actions that could
actually make a difference in in you in
in Israel policy in the in the West Bank
as well as in Gaza look speaking of
Israeli policy I mean the head of the
shinb himself the shinb of course is the
Israeli Secret Service he said that
settler violence is doing Indescribable
damage to Israel do you think that the
statement will make officials in Israel
and even in the United States stand up
and take notice or do you think that
state-backed settler violence as
described by organizations like Amnesty
International is State
policy look the alarm bells are
certainly ringing both in Israel
uh as well as here in in the United
States about the policies that Israel is
undertaking in the West Bank as well as
in Gaza however you know this war has
been going on since October and the
reality is that there hasn't been much
of an effort to actually constrain or
curtail Israel's actions on the ground
so is it State policy in Israel well
certainly it appears to be the policies
of the war cabinet in Israel and in as
much as it affects us policy it doesn't
seem like policy makers in Washington
are willing just yet to take the types
of actions that might be required to try
to change the policies of the war
cabinet all right you like Clifton thank
you so much for joining
us make sure to subscribe to our channel
to get the latest news from Al jaer